Okay. So now, we're going to add date part features.
So we will make features that might capture
a trader investor behavior due to calendar anomalies.
So we can get the dates from the index of the dataframe,
so that's the all factors dataframe that we've been working with.
So, notice that we can use this function,
so from the dataframe index we can get leveled
values and then we can choose which level of the index,
if it's a multi-level index.
So in this case remember the dates are in the level zero,
so if we were to call our dataframe.index and then.get_level_ values,
you can see here that we have the dates here.
If we were to use index level get_level_ values one,
then that would be the tickers,
so we're going to use level zero.
So here's a link to the datetime index attributes.
Let me just close some of these.
Datetime index attributes.
If you scroll down here,
you can see that there are some attributes we can use, all right?
So I'll come back to this in a bit.
So, the month attribute is a numpy array with one for January,
two for February and all the way to 12 for December.
We can use a comparison operator such as
the double equals to return a series of true false values.
As mentioned earlier, it's going to be easier to work
with all numeric values later on in another lesson,
so we're just going to use the as type operator to convert those booleans,
the true falses into ones and zeros.
So, here's an example of some code,
I'm going to type it out a little bit on time.
So here's our dataframe,
we're going to get it's index and then we're going to call
this function get_level_values and we're going to get level zero which is the dates.
Notice here that in this documentation,
you can see that there's this month attribute right here.
So, month is January is one, December is 12.
So we can say.month and then that's going to return,
in this case, these are ones which means that these particular dates fell on a January.
We're going to use the equal operator to say equals January for instance,
and now you can see that it's now an array of booleans,
is true when it is January it's false otherwise.
Then last thing is we can also just convert those booleans into numbers.
So, one is for true, zero is false.
So that's what this set of code is telling you right here.